jello: add page (#6113)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/jello.md

# jello

> > A command-line JSON processor using python syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A command-line JSON processor using Python syntax.
```

> More information: <https://github.com/kellyjonbrazil/jello>.

> - Output JSON or JSON Lines STDIN data, in pretty-print format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Output JSON or JSON-Lines STDIN data, in pretty-print format:
```
`JSON-Lines` is a file format right? If yes I think my suggestion makes it a bit readable. Also I think piping is not the same as reading from STDIN. Maybe we could even rewrite it like that:
```suggestion
- Pretty-print JSON or JSON-Lines input to stdout:
```
The same would apply to all other examples. But maybe let's wait for the other's opinions.

Author: Maybe "Pretty-print JSON or JSON-Lines data from stdin to stdout"?

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me!
```suggestion
- Pretty-print JSON or JSON-Lines data from stdin to stdout:
```

`cat {{file.json}} | jello`

> - Output a grepable schema from JSON or JSON Lines STDIN data:

Reviewer: I think `grepable` is not a word. I can't really come up with an alternative, since I don't know what it's supposed to mean.

Author: Yeah it is a sort of made-up term. Another way to put it would be grep-able or greppable (https://github.com/tomnomnom/gron).

The idea is that you cannot easily use the `grep` command on JSON data, so this schema view allows you to use `grep` to find what you need more easily in the JSON.

Maybe something like: "Output a schema from JSON or JSON Lines data from stdin to stdout (useful for `grep`):

Author: I changed the language. Let me know if that doesn't work.

`cat {{file.json}} | jello -s`

- Output all elements from arrays (or all the values from objects) in JSON or JSON-Lines data from stdin to stdout:

`cat {{file.json}} | jello -l`

- Output the first element in JSON or JSON-Lines data from stdin to stdout:

`cat {{file.json}} | jello _[0]`

- Output the value of a given key of each element in JSON or JSON-Lines data from stdin to stdout:

> `cat {{file.json}} | jello '[i.{{key_name}} for i in _]'`

Reviewer 2: Ah, you can do Python list comprehension. Cool! 🚀

Author: Yep, basically anything you can do in Python. `jello` basically removes the boilerplate code you would need to ingest and output the filtered JSON in different formats. It's very similar to `jq`, which has its own quirky syntax, so I wrote `jello` to work very much like `jq` but with Python syntax.

- Output the value of multiple keys as a new JSON object (assuming the input JSON has the keys `key_name` and `other_key_name`):

> `cat {{file.json}} | jello '{{{"my_new_key"}}: _.{{key_name}}, {{"my_other_key"}}: _.{{other_key_name}}}'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cat {{file.json}} | jello '"{{my_new_key}}": _.{{key_name}}, "{{my_other_key}}": _.{{other_key_name}}}'`
```
We don't really count the `" "` to be part of the argument here.

Author: Ah, that makes sense. I still need that extra `{` in the very beginning, though.

> `cat {{file.json}} | jello '{"{{my_new_key}}": _.{{key_name}}, "{{my_other_key}}": _.{{other_key_name}}}'`

Reviewer: @bl-ue do you think the extra curly brace will cause any render errors?

Reviewer 2: For the node client, it renders beautifully!
<img width="1135" alt="Screen Shot 2021-06-11 at 4 23 21 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/54780737/121744757-594b1300-cad1-11eb-8be4-10e90ed2bf74.png">

- Output the value of a given key to a string (and disable JSON output):

> `cat {{file.json}} | jello -r '"some text: " + _.{{key_name}}'`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cat {{file.json}} | jello -r '"{{some text}}: " + _.{{key_name}}'`
```
Since `some text` is something the user has to input it's a variable argument.

# jello

> A command-line JSON processor using python syntax.
> More information: <https://github.com/kellyjonbrazil/jello>.

- Output JSON or JSON Lines STDIN data, in pretty-print format:

`cat {{file.json}} | jello`

- Output a grepable schema from JSON or JSON Lines STDIN data:

`cat {{file.json}} | jello -s`

- Output all elements from arrays (or all the values from objects) in JSON or JSON Lines STDIN data:

`cat {{file.json}} | jello -l`

- Output the first element in JSON or JSON Lines STDIN data:

`cat {{file.json}} | jello _[0]`

- Output the value of a given key of each element in JSON or JSON Lines STDIN data:

`cat {{file.json}} | jello '[i.{{key_name}} for i in _]'`

- Output the value of multiple keys as a new JSON object (assuming the input JSON has the keys `key_name` and `other_key_name`):

`cat {{file.json}} | jello '{{{"my_new_key"}}: _.{{key_name}}, {{"my_other_key"}}: _.{{other_key_name}}}'`

- Output the value of a given key to a string (and disable JSON output):

`cat {{file.json}} | jello -r '"some text: " + _.{{key_name}}'`

- Output raw string lines or JSON lines using a loop. (Useful for assigning to a BASH variable or array):

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: none of this is allowed.

It needs to be 1 line.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it's really unfortunate that they're only one-liners, but... 🤷🏻‍♂️
